As an analyst for a popular hospital chain with patients in almost every state in the United States, I am investigating the extent to which readmission is a problem for our chain of hospitals. I am researching this for business as external organizations are penalizing hospitals for excessive readmission, and these penalties have increased every year since its inception. As mentioned in the data dictionary, 78% of hospitals were fined in 2015 with fewer than 1 in 5 hospitals utilizing technology specific to readmission reduction. The stated purpose of my analysis from the stakeholders is to predict readmission based on other conditions and factors of the patient. My real-world organizational question is, “What factors related to the patient are causing readmissions?”. The goal is to understand what factors related to the patient are causing the readmissions so we can effectively analyze ways to stem readmissions and serve our patients more effectively.


I am choosing to use Gradient Boost for my analysis. Gradient Boosting can handle many different variables, as we see in our data, from continuous to ordinal and binary categorical variables. This dataset includes many variables that add complexity, and the analysis results are important for the business to stem readmission and prevent penalties, so using the most effective tool is important. Out of the choices of AdaBoost, Random Forest, and Gradient Boost, the most accurate ML model to use is Gradient Boosting. This performance and accuracy will come at a process time cost. This cost is worth it as we desire accuracy from the results to increase efficiency for our patients and reduce costs 
